The Orbital Drop Shock Troopers are part of the UNSC's Marine Corps special forces branch, specializing in 'transorbital support interdiction' operations. The first iteration of the 'ODST' model were 'the Drop-Jet Platoons' of of the 2120s, later codified into the ODSTs with the formation of the UNSC Marines in 2163, seeing their first deployments against Neo-Communist Koslovic forces on Mars in the Interplanetary War (2164-2170).
The Dark Was The Night carries a reinforced company of Orbital Drop Shock Troopers (ODSTs) alongside its standard compliment of UNSC marines. These are the '33rd Drop Jet Battalion', a notoriously unlucky lot who can nonetheless trace their history to the initial Drop Jet Platoons of the 2120s. It's noted to have suffered horrific casualties during the Interplanetary War, where it was nearly destroyed in a bad landing along the slopes of Olympus Mons...
The 21st Recomposite Infantry Regiment 'Rock Hoppers' is a reconstituted formation made up of personnel taken from other, destroyed, units. Thanks to the severity of casualties these extinct units took it was considered logistically unreasonable to rebuild them from scratch. Instead the UNSC would combine their assets alongside freshly raised troops and found the 21st RIR, sometimes called '21st Recom'.
The Colonial Administration Authority (CAA) was founded in 2310 by the UEG to act as the primary governing body and political representative of the Outer Colonies. It grew increasingly unpopular among Outer Colonies natives for its heavy handed bureaucracy and the increasingly violent reprisals committed by the Colonial Military Authority (CMA) in response to unrest. With the onset of the Human Covenant War in 2525, it has effectively been disbanded.
The Colonial Military Authority (CMA) was founded alongside its civilian administrative sibling, the Colonial Administration Authority (CAA) to act as the military arm to the CAA's administration. The CMA saw significant scrutiny during the years of protests and riots leading up to the Insurrection for its violent and poorly handled responses and reprisals, with the onset of the Human Covenant War the CMA has been relegated to rear echelon duties and has seen most of its assets taken by the UNSC proper.
The Colonial Military Authority's (CMA) collective armed forces were broadly considered underequipped, poorly trained and unmotivated to fight and this is true for most of its Navy and Army forces. However the CMA Marines were considerably better armed, trained and motivated, equipped with many weapons and armour systems that would become staples of the UNSC Marines and Army during the Human Covenant War.
SinoViet Heavy Machinery is one of the major megacorporate entities operating in human space. While it operates a large catalogue of personal optical devices, holographic display systems and portable generators, the company is most famous for its successful lines of military starships and is the primary shipbuilder of the UNSC. 'Products' include all conventional carriers, destroyers, cruisers and frigates in the UNSCEF Fleets.
Traxus Heavy Industries is one of many megacorporations operating in human space, most well known for its forklifts, box trucks, long haul vehicles and other every day industrial necessities like specialized fire extinguishers mining equipment.
Mars Based Jotun Heavy Industries is a household name among the Inner and Outer Colonies as a producer of reliable and adaptable machinery. Primarily concerned with heavy and super heavy industrial and agricultural equipment, the company is most well known for its 'Jotun' line of vehicles, favourites of farmers everywhere. For the marines, its most well known for the Elephant line of super-heavy recovery vehicles/APCs.
There are few names as well known in the medical world than Optican, an industry giant providing medical equipment, chemicals, materials and direct assistance through automated health stations and corporate operated clinics. One of its most prominent products is MediGel, however it is also well known for producing Optican: BurnGuard and Optican: Burnspray, common items found in most marine medical kits.
Optican BurnGuard was never meant for military applications when first developed in 2403. Instead, it was primarily meant for niche lab and industrial settings where exposure to extreme heat or niche chemical mixtures may cause irreparable damage. Its usefulness as a form of first aid against plasma burns was first discovered in 2526 by the 183rd Combat Engineering Battalion on the world of Cauldron, who were forced to scavenge the local industrial sector for medical supplies while pinned down over several weeks of hard fighting.
There is no company name more familiar to a member of the UNSC than Misriah Armory. For centuries Misriah Armory has produced the vast majority of the UNSC's small arms, aerospace craft and field equipment: from the M12 LRV Warthog, to the MA5 line of rifles, to the D77 Pelican, AV-14 Hornet and M52 family of body armour. Word is they'll send a free pack of stickers to any marine who sends an appropriate letter, or E-mail.
A lesser known Martian arms and equipment developer and manufacturer, Ushuaia Armory is famous, or infamous, for its production of  most of the UNSC's drop pods. Other major products include the Albatross Heavy Dropship, Vulture Gunships and assisting Misriah in the development and later production of the CH252 Helmet, Marine BDU system and several accompanying pieces of worn armour and sensor equipment.
Chalybs Defense Solutions is an Earth based arms and vehicle manufacturer, most well known for the famous Scorpion line of tanks, with other mainline military products being the Grizzly heavy tank and the Rhino self propelled gun.
If you love your M90 shotgun, thank Weapon System Technology! This household military, law enforcement and civilian arms manufacturer lacks the reach or breadth of products their competitors like Misriah, but make up for it with wide availability of economical and reliable weapon systems.
As of 2537 the 'Spartan-II Program' is not officially declassified in any capacity. For the average Marine or ODST the only stories they know are rare and quite fleeting rumours from a guy who knew a guy who survived a fight after encountering 'cyborgs' or 'robots' who saved them from the Covenant. Anything past this is utterly unknown.
The United Nations Space Command is split between two broader organizations: The UNSCDF (Defence Forces), which consists of the UNSC Army, Blue Navy and Air Force, then there is the UNSCEF (Expedtionary Forces) which includes the Marine Corps and Navy.
The United Earth Government (UEG) was founded in 2075 by the United Nations and is the primary overarching governing body of Earth and all her colonies. During the diaspora from Earth during the early colonial period (2300s), it would administrate Earth and the Inner Colonies, while the Colonial Administration Authority would act as the governing body for the Outer Colonies on the UEG's behalf.
Titanium-A is a composite material used primarily for armor protection on UNSC assets. It is durable against directed energy, kinetic impact, and capable of being formed into different complex geometries. Despite its outstanding properties in all respects, alien weapons seem to be determined to laugh at it in every encounter.
With the start of the Human-Covenant War. The majority of the Insurrection was either destroyed, ceased hostilities or focused on surviving the existential war alone. A minority would continue the fight against the UEG for various reasons, ranging from ignorance of the alien threat to fierce determination to resist.
Covenant plasma weapons are powerful enough to qualify as antimateriel arms across the board. Even a plasma pistol will punch clear through M52B's Titanium A on a direct hit. Grazes alone can be lethal without armor.
The MA5B's 60 round clip was discontinued beyond its single iteration. While its specialized design was rugged, its reliability over time fell off and was found to be unavoidable. Most commonly cited is the magazine spring, but there's a good reason why MA5C clips are narrower as well as shorter.
A Covenant Ministry is a massive entity in its own right, with vast powers available to it. To this end nearly all significant Ministries can claim ownership to their own vast armies and capable fleets, which may display specialized patterns of vessel and personal equipment among their troops. It is not unheard of that two Ministries may use these resources to combat eachother over relics, personnel or assets.
The Covenant is ruled by the High Council and has all of its major functions completed by a legion of numberless 'Ministries'. While its authority is supreme over much of the Galaxy, the Covenant does not directly rule most of its territory, instead giving this responsibility to its member-species who are expected to ensure tithes of material and soldiers reach its coffers.
In 2319 the Z-12 was unvailed by AMG Transport Dynamics. The Z-12 was wildly popular with the Colonial Military Authority who's marines eventually dubbed the vehicle the "Warthog".
